---
Layout:
Title:	"Components and props"
Date:	2021-08-12
Categories:

---

# Introduction

today I tried creating the simple react app that Moral assigned to us.
I was struggling with styling it.

# Body

## Inline Styles

Inline styles are the most direct away to style any React application.
Styling elements inline doesn't require you to create a separate stylesheet.
Style applied directly to the elements as compared to styles in a stylesheet also have higher precedence. This means that they "override" other style rules that may be applied to an element.

Despite a few quick benefits, inline styles are only an acceptable choice for very small applications. The difficulties with inline styles become apparent as your code base grows even slightly.
Despite this improvement, inline styles do not have a number of essential features that any simple CSS stylesheet could provide.
If you're prototyping an application, inline styles are great. However, as you get further into making it, you will need to switch to another CSS styling option to give you basic CSS features.

## Plain CSS

Instead of using inline styles, it's common to import a CSS stylesheet to style a component's elements.
Writing CSS in a stylesheet is probably the most common and basic approach to styling a React application, but it shouldn't be dismissed so easily.
Writing styles in "plain" CSS stylesheets is getting better all the time, due to an increasing set of features available in the CSS standard.

This includes features like CSS variables to store dynamic values, all manner of advanced selectors to select child elements with precision, and new pseudo-classes like :is and :where.
CSS written in a stylesheet is a great first choice for your application. Unlike inline styles, it can style your application in virtually any way you need.
One minor problem might be your naming convention. Once you have a very well-developed application, it becomes harder to think of unique classnames for your elements, especially when you have 5 divs wrapped inside each other.

# Conclusion

Additionally, writing normal CSS can be more verbose and repetitive than newer tools like SASS/SCSS. As a result, it can take a bit longer to write your styles in CSS versus a tool like SCSS or a CSS-in-JS library.
Plus, it's important to note that since CSS cascades to all children elements, if you apply a CSS stylesheet to a component it is not just scoped to that component. All its declared rules will be transferred to any elements that are children of your styled component.