---
Layout:
Title:	"my day"
Date:	2021-06-14
Categories:

---

# Introduction

today I did code wars and freecodecamp, and i'll be talking about the katar I solved.

# Body

The parseInt() function parses a string argument and returns an integer of the specified radix (the base in mathematical numeral systems).

If the string argument is not a string, then it is converted to a string (using the ToString abstract operation).
Leading whitespace in the string argument is ignored.’= radix An integer between 2 and 36 that represents the radix (the base in mathematical numeral systems) of the above mentioned string. 

Always specify this parameter to eliminate reader confusion and to guarantee predictable behavior.
Different implementations produce different results when a radix is not specified, usually defaulting the value to 10.
Return value An integer number parsed from the given string. If the first character cannot be converted to a number, NaN is returned.

The parseInt function converts its first argument to a string, parses it, and returns an integer or NaN. 
If not NaN, the returned value will be the integer that is the first argument taken as a number in the specified radix (base). 
If parseInt encounters a character that is not a numeral in the specified radix, it ignores it and all succeeding characters and returns the integer value parsed up to that point.
 parseInt truncates numbers to integer values. Leading and trailing spaces are allowed.

 # Conclusion

 If radix is undefined or 0 (or absent), JavaScript assumes the following:

  - If the input string begins with “0x” or “0X”, radix is 16 (hexadecimal) and the remainder of the string is parsed.
  - If the input string begins with “0”, radix is eight (octal) or 10 (decimal). 
  - If the input string begins with any other value, the radix is 10 (decimal).
  - If the first character cannot be converted to a number, parseInt returns NaN.