---
Layout:
Title:	"react"
Date:	2021-06-24
Categories:

---

# Introduction

today I started doing a new topic called react so I will be talking about react.
all the general information regarding react.

# Body

- React is a JavaScript library created for building fast and interactive user interfaces for web and mobile applications. 
- It is an open-source, component-based, front-end library responsible only for the application’s view layer. 
- React makes it easier to create dynamic web applications because it requires less coding and offers more functionality, as opposed to JavaScript, where coding often gets complex very quickly.
- React uses Virtual DOM, thereby creating web applications faster. Virtual DOM compares the components’ previous states and updates only the items in the Real DOM that were changed, instead of updating all of the components again, as conventional web applications do. 
- Components are the building blocks of any React application, and a single app usually consists of multiple components. These components have their logic and controls, and they can be reused throughout the application, which in turn dramatically reduces the application’s development time.
- React follows a unidirectional data flow. This means that when designing a React app, developers often nest child components within parent components.
- React is easy to learn, as it mostly combines basic HTML and JavaScript concepts with some beneficial additions.
- We already know that React is used for the development of web applications, but that’s not all it can do.
- Facebook has released a Chrome extension that can be used to debug React applications. This makes the process of debugging React web applications faster and easier.


# Conclusion

React uses VDOM, which makes the web applications run much faster than those developed with alternate front-end frameworks. React breaks a complex user interface into individual components, allowing multiple users to work on each component simultaneously, thereby speeding up the development time. 

