---
Layout:
Title:	"Sass"
Date:	2021-06-23
Categories:

---

# Introduction

today I did a new topic called css which is a function of css.
this topic simplifies the rules of css.

# Body

Before you can use Sass, you need to set it up on your project.
- Sass has features that don't exist in CSS yet, like nesting, mixins, inheritance, and other nifty goodies that help you write clea, maintainable CSS.
- Once you start tinkering with Sass, it will take your preprocessed Sass file and save it as a normal CSS file that you can use in your website.
- The most direct way to make this happen is in your terminal. Once Sass is installed, you can compile your Sass to CSS using the sass command. You'll need to tell Sass which file to build from, and where to output CSS to.
- You can also watch individual files or directories with the --watch flag. The watch flag tells Sass to watch your source files for changes, and re-compile CSS each time you save your Sass.

* Variables

- Think of variables as a way to store information that you want to reuse throughout your stylesheet. You can store things like colors, font stacks, or any CSS value you think you'll want to reuse. Sass uses the $ symbol to make something a variable.

* Nesting

- When writing HTML you've probably noticed that it has a clear nested and visual hierarchy. CSS, on the other hand, doesn't.
Sass will let you nest your CSS selectors in a way that follows the same visual hierarchy of your HTML. Be aware that overly nested rules will result in over-qualified CSS that could prove hard to maintain and is generally considered bad practice.

* Partials

- You can create partial Sass files that contain little snippets of CSS that you can include in other Sass files. This is a great way to modularize your CSS and help keep things easier to maintain. A partial is a Sass file named with a leading underscore.

* Modules

- You don't have to write all your Sass in a single file. You can split it up however you want with the @use rule. This rule loads another Sass file as a module, which means you can refer to its variables, mixins, and functions in your Sass file with a namespace based on the filename

* Mixins

- Some things in CSS are a bit tedious to write, especially with CSS3 and the many vendor prefixes that exist. A mixin lets you make groups of CSS declarations that you want to reuse throughout your site. You can even pass in values to make your mixin more flexible.

* Extend/Inheritance

- This is one of the most useful features of Sass. Using @extend lets you share a set of CSS properties from one selector to another. It helps keep your Sass very DRY.

# conclusion

- Operators
Doing math in your CSS is very helpful. Sass has a handful of standard math operators like +, -, *, /, and %. In our example we're going to do some simple math to calculate widths for an aside & article.