---
Layout:
Title:	"css grid"
Date:	2021-05-19
Categories:

---

# Introduction

today I'll be talking about css grid.

# Body

- CSS Grid Layout excels at dividing a page into major regions or defining the relationship in terms of size, position, and layer, between parts of a control built from HTML primitives.

- Like tables, grid layout enables an author to align elements into columns and rows. However, many more layouts are either possible or easier with CSS grid than they were with tables.

- Flexbox helped out, but it’s intended for simpler one-dimensional layouts, not complex two-dimensional ones (Flexbox and Grid actually work very well together)

-  Grid is the very first CSS module created specifically to solve the layout problems we’ve all been hacking our way around for as long as we’ve been making websites.

- Grid Container
The element on which display: grid is applied. It’s the direct parent of all the grid items.

- Grid Item
The children of the grid container.

- Grid Line
The dividing lines that make up the structure of the grid.

- Grid Cell
The space between two adjacent row and two adjacent column grid lines.

- start – aligns the grid to be flush with the start edge of the grid container
- end – aligns the grid to be flush with the end edge of the grid container
- center – aligns the grid in the center of the grid container
- stretch – resizes the grid items to allow the grid to fill the full width of the grid container
- space-around - places an even amount of space between each grid item, with half-sized spaces on the far ends
- space-between – places an even amount of space between each grid item, with no space at the far ends
- space-evenly – places an even amount of space between each grid item, including the far ends

# Conslusion

grid-auto-columns
grid-auto-rows
Specifies the size of any auto-generated grid tracks (aka implicit grid tracks). Implicit tracks get created when there are more grid items than cells in the grid or when a grid item is placed outside of the explicit grid. 