---
Layout:
Title:	"my day"
Date:	2021-06-15
Categories:

---

# Introduction

today I tried doing freecodecamp but I got stucked along the way so I decided to research what the topic I'm doing is actually about.
on Freecodecamp I am doing Intermediate Algorithm Scripting.

# Body 

so I will be talking about the topic that I'm doing since I'm having a hard time solving the problems that I'm faced with.
These problems requires a lot of regex and I still have problems with regex.
I know that it was a bad idea to pass Regex knowing quite well that I don't really understand it, but in my defence I felt like I wasn't moving while everyone else is moving foward so I have decided to go back to regex and understand it thoroughly.

writing algorithms takes both - knowledge if the language and way of thinking and ability to break problem to smaller parts.
An algorithm is a series of step-by-step instructions that describe how to do something.
To write an effective algorithm, it helps to break a problem down into smaller parts, and think carefully about how to solve each part with code.

An algorithm is a process or set of rules to be followed in calculations or other problem-solving operations, especially by a computer.
Algorithms aren’t specific to coding, but they’re especially useful because they allow us to tell computers exactly what we want them to do.
You can think of a programming algorithm as a recipe that describes the exact steps needed for the computer to solve a problem or reach a goal.
So basically, an algorithm is just a series of very specific steps! See the below flowchart depicting an algorithm to fix a broken lamp.


PEDAC stands for Understanding the Problem, Examples/Test Cases, Data Structure, Algorithm, and Code.
The hardest part about algorithm challenges isn’t the actual writing of the code, It’s understanding how to break down a problem into steps that are specific and replicable.

# Conclusion

so after doing this research and reading other people's testimonies, I think i found a better way of solving my problem and I also used the PEDAC method to try and solve some of the issues on the topic that I'm currently doing on freecodecamp.