---
Layout:
Title:	"useState"
Date:	2021-08-10
Categories:

---

# Introduction

in this App that I'm using I don't understand what useState is.

# Body

We call it inside a function component to add some local state to it. 
React will preserve this state between re-renders. 
useState returns a pair: the current state value and a function that lets you update it. 
You can call this function from an event handler or somewhere else. 
It’s similar to this.setState in a class, except it doesn’t merge the old and new state together. 

The only argument to useState is the initial state.
The initial state argument is only used during the first render.
The array destructuring syntax lets us give different names to the state variables we declared by calling useState.
These names aren’t a part of the useState API. Instead, React assumes that if you call useState many times, you do it in the same order during every render. 

Hooks are functions that let you “hook into” React state and lifecycle features from function components. 
Hooks don’t work inside classes — they let you use React without classes. 
React provides a few built-in Hooks like useState. You can also create your own Hooks to reuse stateful behavior between different components.
When you call useEffect, you’re telling React to run your “effect” function after flushing changes to the DOM. Effects are declared inside the component so they have access to its props and state. By default, React runs the effects after every render — including the first render.

# Conclusion

Effects may also optionally specify how to “clean up” after them by returning a function.
Hooks are JavaScript functions, but they impose two additional rules:

Only call Hooks at the top level. Don’t call Hooks inside loops, conditions, or nested functions.
Only call Hooks from React function components. Don’t call Hooks from regular JavaScript functions.