---
Layout:
Title:	"React lifecycle methods"
Date:	2021-09-09
Categories:

---

# Introduction

today I staerted a new chapter in freecodecamp which is Redux.
I'll be eroborating more on what Redux is.

# Body

Redux is a pattern and library for managing and updating application state, using events called "actions". It serves as a centralized store for state that needs to be used across your entire application, with rules ensuring that the state can only be updated in a predictable fashion.

Redux helps you manage "global" state - state that is needed across many parts of your application.
The patterns and tools provided by Redux make it easier to understand when, where, why, and how the state in your application is being updated, and how your application logic will behave when those changes occur. Redux guides you towards writing code that is predictable and testable, which helps give you confidence that your application will work as expected.

Redux helps you deal with shared state management, but like any tool, it has tradeoffs. There are more concepts to learn, and more code to write. It also adds some indirection to your code, and asks you to follow certain restrictions. It's a trade-off between short term and long term productivity.

Redux is a small standalone JS library. However, it is commonly used with several other packages:
   * React-Redux -
      Redux can integrate with any UI framework, and is most frequently used with React. React-Redux is our official package that lets your React components interact with a Redux store by reading pieces of state and dispatching actions to update the store.

   * Redux Toolkit -
     Redux Toolkit is our recommended approach for writing Redux logic. It contains packages and functions that we think are essential for building a Redux app. Redux Toolkit builds in our suggested best practices, simplifies most Redux tasks, prevents common mistakes, and makes it easier to write Redux applications.

   * Redux DevTools Extension -
      The Redux DevTools Extension shows a history of the changes to the state in your Redux store over time. This allows you to debug your applications effectively, including using powerful techniques like "time-travel debugging".


# conclusion

An action is a plain JavaScript object that has a type field. You can think of an action as an event that describes something that happened in the application.