---
Layout:
Title:	"ParseInt"
Date:	2021-09-06
Categories:

---

# Introduction
today I did code wars and I came across a katar that required me to create a function that used the parseInt method.

# Body

The parseInt() function parses a string argument and returns an integer of the specified radix

* string
The value to parse. If this argument is not a string, then it is converted to one using the ToString abstract operation. Leading whitespace in this argument is ignored.

* radix (ptional)
An integer between 2 and 36 that represents the radix of the string. Be careful—this does not default to 10! If the radix value is not of the Number type it will be coerced to a Number.

* Return value
An integer parsed from the given string.

> the radix is smaller than 2 or bigger than 36, or
> the first non-whitespace character cannot be converted to a number.

If not NaN, the return value will be the integer that is the first argument taken as a number in the specified radix. 
If parseInt encounters a character that is not a numeral in the specified radix, it ignores it and all succeeding characters and returns the integer value parsed up to that point. parseInt truncates numbers to integer values. Leading and trailing spaces are allowed.

# Conclusion

The parseInt function converts its first argument to a string, parses that string, then returns an integer or NaN.
parseInt understands exactly two signs: + for positive, and - for negative (since ECMAScript 1). It is done as an initial step in the parsing after whitespace is removed. If no signs are found, the algorithm moves to the following step; otherwise, it removes the sign and runs the number-parsing on the rest of the string.