---
Layout:
Title:	"ReactDOM.render and the Top Level React API"
Date:	2021-08-31
Categories:

---

# Introduction

today I did Freecodecamp.

# Body

The primary API for rendering into the DOM looks like this:
ReactDOM.render(reactElement, domContainerNode)

If you are rendering React components within a single-page app, you may need to plug into the app’s view lifecycle to ensure your app will invoke unmountComponentAtNode at the appropriate time.

React will not automatically clean up a tree. You need to manually call:
ReactDOM.unmountComponentAtNode(domContainerNode)

Forgetting to call unmountComponentAtNode will cause your app to leak memory. There is no way for us to automatically detect when it is appropriate to do this work. 

It is not unique to the DOM. If you want to insert a React Native view in the middle of an existing iOS app you will hit similar issues.

If you have multiple React roots, or a single root that gets deleted over time,you have to always create your own wrapper API.
These will all look slightly different depending on what your outer system looks like. 

Rather than calling ReactDOM.render() directly everywhere, consider writing/using a library that will manage mounting and unmounting within your application.

In your environment you may want to always configure internationalization, routers, user data etc. If you have many different React roots it can be a pain to set up configuration nodes all over the place. By creating your own wrapper you can unify that configuration into one place.

# Conclusion

If you call ReactDOM.render a second time to update properties, all your props are completely replaced.
In object-oriented programming, all state lives on each object instance and you apply changes incrementally by mutating that state, one piece at a time.

If you are using React within an app that expects an object oriented API 
for instance, if you are building a custom web component using React, it might be surprising or confusing to a user that setting a single property would wipe out all the other properties on your component.

There used to be a helper function called setProps which allowed us to update only a few properties at a time. Unfortunately this API lived on a component instance, required React to keep this state internally and wasn’t very natural anyway. Therefore, we’re deprecating it and it was suggested that we build it into our own wrapper instead.