---
Layout:
Title:	"Bootstrap"
Date:	2021-06-21
Categories:

---

# Introduction

Today I managed to finish intermediate algorithm scripting after sucessfully understanding regex.
so I have started a new topic bootstrap which I enjoyed so much.
I will be talking about all to know about bootstrap.

# Body

The web app development toolkit was created by former Twitter employees Mark Otto and Jacob Thornton.
Bootstrap is a giant collection of handy, reusable bits of code written in HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. It’s also a frontend development framework that enables developers and designers to quickly build fully responsive websites.

Essentially, Bootstrap saves you from writing lots of CSS code, giving you more time to spend on designing webpages.

 - 8 advantages of bootstrap

 1. Its responsive grid
   - No more spending hours coding your own grid—Bootstrap comes with its own grid system predefined
 2. Its responsive images
   - Bootstrap comes with its own code for automatically resizing images based on the current screen size. Just add the .img-responsive class to your images, and the predefined CSS rules take care of the rest.
 3. Its components
   - Bootstrap comes with a whole barrelful of components you can easily tack onto your web page
 4. Its JavaScript
   - Bootstrap also allows developers to take advantage of over a dozen custom JQuery plugins.
 5. Its documentation
   -  Every piece of code is described and explained in explicit detail on their website.
 6. Its customizability
   - One of the main critiques when it comes to frameworks such as Bootstrap is their size—the weight they throw around can really slow down your application upon first load. The current version of Bootstrap’s CSS file, for example, is a whopping 119 KB. While this may not seem especially large compared to image and video files, for a CSS file, that’s enormous!
 7. Its community
   - Being hosted on GitHub makes it easy for developers to modify and contribute to Bootstrap’s codebase. It also makes it easy for people to collaborate, lend their advice, and interact with peers and fellow users
 8. Its external templates
   - As its popularity grew, people started creating templates based on Bootstrap in order to accelerate the web development process even further. There are many websites out there dedicated to sharing and buying custom templates based on Bootstrap.

# Conclusion

 It makes it easy to integrate many great features that enrich a user’s interaction with the web without having to code them from scratch.Bootstrap is immensely popular and has been used to build some great websites.