---
Layout:
Title:	"introducing JSX"
Date:	2021-06-29
Categories:

---

# Introduction
today I continued with react and I will be sharing about
JSX.

# Body

- React embraces the fact that rendering logic is inherently coupled with other UI logic: how events are handled, how the state changes over time, and how the data is prepared for display.

- Instead of artificially separating technologies by putting markup and logic in separate files, React separates concerns with loosely coupled units called “components” that contain both. We will come back to components in a further section, but if you’re not yet comfortable putting markup in JS, this talk might convince you otherwise.

- React doesn’t require using JSX, but most people find it helpful as a visual aid when working with UI inside the JavaScript code. It also allows React to show more useful error and warning messages.

- You can put any valid JavaScript expression inside the curly braces in JSX
- We split JSX over multiple lines for readability. While it isn’t required, when doing this, we also recommend wrapping it in parentheses to avoid the pitfalls of automatic semicolon insertion.

- Since JSX compiles into calls to React.createElement, the React library must also always be in scope from your JSX code.

- You can also refer to a React component using dot-notation from within JSX. This is convenient if you have a single module that exports many React components.
- When an element type starts with a lowercase letter, it refers to a built-in component like <div> or <span> and results in a string 'div' or 'span' passed to React.createElement. Types that start with a capital letter like <Foo /> compile to React.createElement(Foo) and correspond to a component defined or imported in your JavaScript file.

- You can pass any JavaScript expression as a prop, by surrounding it with {}.
- If you pass no value for a prop, it defaults to true. These two JSX expressions are equivalent.

- In JSX expressions that contain both an opening tag and a closing tag, the content between those tags is passed as a special prop: props.children. There are several different ways to pass children:

           1. String Literals
           2. JSX Children
           3.JavaScript Expressions as Children
           4. Functions as Children
    

# Conclusion

You cannot use a general expression as the React element type. If you do want to use a general expression to indicate the type of the element, just assign it to a capitalized variable first. This often comes up when you want to render a different component based on a prop.

