---
Layout:
Title:	"binary"
Date:	2021-06-28
Categories:

---

# Introduction

today I did binary while solving a katar

# Body

- binary numbers are used to store and calculate numbers in computers,
- In order to achieve different purposes, it is all to simplify the problem. Binary numbers are represented in the computer in different ways, such as original code, reverse code, complement code, and shift code.
- The range of truth values ​​that an 8-bit binary number can represent is [-2 ^ 8, + 2 ^ 8].

Since the computer can only store 0 and 1, it cannot store positive and negative, so the highest bit of the 8 binary bits is used to represent the sign, 0 is positive, 1 is negative, and the last seven bits are used to represent the absolute value of the true value. The method is called the original code notation, referred to as the original code.

-  there is another type of data in js, which is an integer represented by 32 bits.
- As long as any number in js is bitwise operated, the operating system will convert it to integers. 
- The bit operators in js have the following. When performing these operations on numbers, the system will say that 64 floating-point numbers are converted to 32-bit integers.

* & versus

* | Or

* ~ Non

* ^ XOR

* << shift left

# Conclusion

 Binary is a base-2 number system invented by Gottfried Leibniz that's made up of only two numbers or digits: 0 (zero) and 1 (one). This numbering system is the basis for all binary code, which is used to write digital data such as the computer processor instructions used every day.