---
Layout:
Title:	"My Day At The Coding Ground"
Date:	2021-03-05
Categories:

---

# Introduction
today I finished all the touch ups that my website needed. from there on I focused on FreecodeCamp.

# Body 
today on freecodecamp I did Regular Expression.

# Regular Expression

Regular expressions are used in programming languages to match parts of strings. You create patterns to help you do that matching.

This is powerful to search single strings, but it's limited to only one pattern. You can search for multiple patterns using the alternation or OR operator: |.

Case (or sometimes letter case) is the difference between uppercase letters and lowercase letters. Examples of uppercase are A, B, and C. Examples of lowercase are a, b, and c.

You can match both cases using what is called a flag. There are other flags but here you'll focus on the flag that ignores case - the i flag. You can use it by appending it to the regex. An example of using this flag is /ignorecase/i. This regex can match the strings ignorecase, igNoreCase, and IgnoreCase.

To use the .match() method, apply the method on a string and pass in the regex inside the parentheses.

The wildcard character . will match any one character. The wildcard is also called dot and period. You can use the wildcard character just like any other character in the regex. For example, if you wanted to match hug, huh, hut, and hum, you can use the regex /hu./ to match all four words.

# Conclusion 

my typing skills are becoming better and better.
I plan to redo JavaScript again on monday.
