---
Layout:
Title: "What are hackers"
Date: 2022-03-02
Categories:

---

# Introduction

For the Presentation that Tanille gave us I plan 
to present about hackers.
This is one of the Topics that has managed to pique my 
interest in the world of IT. I wanted to study this particular feild
but time wasn't on my side, It still is my dream so I am still planning on
studying it in the near future.

# Body

## What is a Hacker?

A hacker is an individual or person who use their technical skills to overcome technical problems
or gain unauthorised access to computer systems or networks.

## What is Hacking?

Is the ynAuthorised access to a computer system or computer network security systems illegal.
- It refers to the misuse of devices such as computers, smartphones, tablets and networks to corrupt 
systems.

##  Types of hackers

1. Black Hat: Criminal Hackers
 - A black hat hacker is a cybercriminal who breaks into computer systems with malicious or criminal intent.
   Black hat hackers are probably what you think of when you picture a typical hacker or cybercriminal.
   Their advanced technical knowledge and ability to navigate the cybersecurity landscape is what makes them 
   so skilled in carrying out their attacks. They go out of their way to find vulnerabilities in computer systems 
   and software, which they exploit for financial gain or other malicious purposes.
* to profit from data breaches.

2. White Hat: Authorized Hackers
 - Similar to black hat hackers, white hat hackers are cybersecurity experts who use their skills to find vulnerabilities 
   in organizational networks and computer systems.
   The key difference between them, however, is that white hat hackers are authorized to hack these systems for the purpose 
   of spotting security vulnerabilities before a criminal hacker can.
   Typically hired by governments or large businesses, white hat hackers identify and fix loopholes or weaknesses found in 
   organizational security systems to help prevent an external attack or data breach.

* Help businesses prevent cybersecurity attacks

3. Grey Hat: “Just for Fun” Hackers
 - A grey hat hacker is a cybersecurity expert who finds ways to hack into computer networks and systems, but without the 
   malicious intent of a black hat hacker.
   Typically, they engage in hacking activities for the pure enjoyment of finding gaps in computer systems, and they might 
   even let the owner know if any weak points are found. However, they don’t always take the most ethical route when employing 
   their hacking activities—they may penetrate systems or networks without the owner’s permission although they aren’t trying 
   to cause any harm.
* Motives: Personal enjoyment

4. Script Kiddies: Ametuer Hackers
 - Script kiddies are amateur hackers that don’t possess the same level of skill or expertise as more advanced hackers in the field. 
   To make up for this, they turn to existing malware created by other hackers to carry out their attacks.
* To cause disruption.

5. Green Hat: Hackers-in-Training
 - A green hat hacker is someone who is new to the hacking world but is intently focused on increasing their cyberattack skills.
   They primarily focus on gaining knowledge on how to perform cyberattacks on the same level as their black hat counterparts. 
   Their main intent is to eventually evolve into a full-fledged hacker, so they spend their time looking for learning opportunities 
   from more experienced hackers.
* To learn how to become an experienced hacker.

# Conclusion

The history of hackers can be traced back to the 1960s at MIT. There, extremely skilled individuals practiced hardcore programming in FORTRAN 
and other older languages. The history of hackers came to be with certain innovative landmarks.