---
Layout:
Title:	"mongoose"
Date:	2022-02-14
Categories:

---

# Introduction
today I finished up mongodb and mongoose so that I could start with testing.
Today's blogpost will be about what mongoose is.

# Body

## What is Mongoose?

Mongoose is an object modeling library that works seamlessly with MongoDB. It provides a variety of features that allow developers to model data in the form of relationships, validation, and translation.

MongoDB is a non-relational database that stores JSON documents in its database. It's a great alternative to SQL databases for developers who want to reduce the complexity of deploying.

### Collections
Collections in Mongo are equivalent to tables in relational databases. They can hold multiple JSON documents.

### Documents
are equivalent to records or rows of data in SQL. While a SQL row can reference data in other tables, Mongo documents usually combine that in a document.

### Fields
Fields or attributes are similar to columns in a SQL table.

### Schema
While Mongo is schema-less, SQL defines a schema via the table definition. A Mongoose ‘schema’ is a document data structure that is enforced via the application layer.

### Models
are higher-order constructors that take a schema and create an instance of a document equivalent to records in a relational database.


# Conclusion

Collection validation of the MongoDB database can be done easily.
Predefined Structure can be implemented on the collection.
Constraints can be applied to documents of collections using Mongoose.
Mongoose module built on the top of MongoDB driver and provides easily abstraction of the query and define a query.