---
Layout:
Title: "DataBase"
Date: 2022-02-25
Categories:

---

# Introduction

## What is a database4

A database is an organized collection of structured information, or data, typically stored 
electronically in a computer system. A database is usually controlled by a database management 
system (DBMS). Together, the data and the DBMS, along with the applications that are associated 
with them, are referred to as a database system, often shortened to just database.

Data within the most common types of databases in operation today is typically modeled in rows and 
columns in a series of tables to make processing and data querying efficient. The data can then be 
easily accessed, managed, modified, updated, controlled, and organized. Most databases use structured 
query language (SQL) for writing and querying data.

## What is Structured Query Language (SQL)?

SQL is a programming language used by nearly all relational databases to query, manipulate, and define data, 
and to provide access control.

Databases and spreadsheets (such as Microsoft Excel) are both convenient ways to store information. 
The primary differences between the two are:

> How the data is stored and manipulated
Who can access the data
How much data can be stored
Spreadsheets were originally designed for one user, and their characteristics reflect that. They’re great for a 
single user or small number of users who don’t need to do a lot of incredibly complicated data manipulation. 
Databases, on the other hand, are designed to hold much larger collections of organized information—massive amounts, 
sometimes. Databases allow multiple users at the same time to quickly and securely access and query the data using 
highly complex logic and language.

## Types of databases

> Relational databases
Relational databases became dominant in the 1980s. Items in a relational database are organized as a set of tables with 
columns and rows. Relational database technology provides the most efficient and flexible way to access structured information.
> Object-oriented databases
Information in an object-oriented database is represented in the form of objects, as in object-oriented programming.
> Distributed databases
A distributed database consists of two or more files located in different sites. The database may be stored on multiple computers, 
located in the same physical location, or scattered over different networks.
> Data warehouses
A central repository for data, a data warehouse is a type of database specifically designed for fast query and analysis.
> NoSQL databases
A NoSQL, or nonrelational database, allows unstructured and semistructured data to be stored and manipulated (in contrast to a relational 
database, which defines how all data inserted into the database must be composed). NoSQL databases grew popular as web applications became 
more common and more complex.
>Graph databases
A graph database stores data in terms of entities and the relationships between entities.
OLTP databases. An OLTP database is a speedy, analytic database designed for large numbers of transactions performed by multiple users.
These are only a few of the several dozen types of databases in use today. Other, less common databases are tailored to very specific scientific, 
financial, or other functions. In addition to the different database types, changes in technology development approaches and dramatic advances such 
as the cloud and automation are propelling databases in entirely new directions. Some of the latest databases include

> Open source databases
An open source database system is one whose source code is open source; such databases could be SQL or NoSQL databases.
> Cloud databases
A cloud database is a collection of data, either structured or unstructured, that resides on a private, public, or hybrid cloud computing platform. 
There are two types of cloud database models: traditional and database as a service (DBaaS). With DBaaS, administrative tasks and maintenance are 
performed by a service provider.
> Multimodel database
Multimodel databases combine different types of database models into a single, integrated back end. This means they can accommodate various data types.
> Document/JSON database
Designed for storing, retrieving, and managing document-oriented information, document databases are a modern way to store data in JSON format rather than rows and columns.
> Self-driving databases
The newest and most groundbreaking type of database, self-driving databases (also known as autonomous databases) are cloud-based and use machine learning to automate 
database tuning, security, backups, updates, and other routine management tasks traditionally performed by database administrators.

# Conclusion

Database software is used to create, edit, and maintain database files and records, enabling easier file and record creation, data entry, data editing, 
updating, and reporting. The software also handles data storage, backup and reporting, multi-access control, and security. Strong database security is 
especially important today, as data theft becomes more frequent. Database software is sometimes also referred to as a “database management system” (DBMS).