---
Layout:
Title: "What are caches"
Date: 2022-03-07
Categories:

---

# Introduction
Today as I was doing freecodecamp I came across a chapter that
talked about caches but it didn't talk that much about them so I 
decided to investigate about them since I've came across them more than once 
in my personal life and don't know what they actually are.

# Body

## What are Caches?
A cache is a special storage space for temporary files which makes a device, browser, 
or app run faster and more efficiently.

After opening an app or website for the first time, a cache stashes files, images, and 
other pertinent data on your device.

Cached data is used to quickly load an app or website for every subsequent visit.
A cache makes it easy to quickly retrieve data, which in turn helps devices run faster. It 
acts like a memory bank, making it easy to access data locally instead of redownloading it 
every time you visit a website or open an app.

Caches play big roles in three main roles:
- Devices and Softwares.
- Web Browsers.
- Apps

Devices and Softwares
 - Caches are found in both software and hardware. 
   The CPU is the core component responsible for processing information from the software in your desktop 
   computer, laptop, smartphone, or tablet and has its own cache.

   - A CPU cache is a small block of memory that's designed to help the CPU easily retrieve frequently used 
   information. It stores data that your device's main memory uses to execute instructions far more quickly 
   than if it had to load every bit of information only when it was requested.

Web Browser
 - Every Website maintains its own cache.
 - A browser cache stores files needed by your browser to display the web sites it visits. This includes elements 
   like the HTML file that describe the site, along with CSS style sheets, Javascripts, cookies, and images.

Apps 
- Apps typically maintain their own cache as well. Like browsers, apps save files and data they deem important so 
they can quickly reload the information as needed. Every app is different, though, and so the kind of data it caches 
will vary, but might include images, video thumbnails, search history, and other user preferences.

# Conclusion

They make everything run faster. The key benefit of a cache is that it improves the performance of the system. 
They save data. To help improve performance, apps store recently and frequently used data to the cache. Not only 
does this allow everything to run faster as previously mentioned, but in some cases it can allow apps to work 
offline. 
They store data for later use. There's a lot of efficiency in only downloading files once. If a copy of a file is 
stored in the cache, then the app doesn't need to waste time, battery power, and other resources downloading it a 
second time. Instead, the app only needs to download changed or new files.
