---
Layout:
Title: "passport"
Date: 2022-02-22
Categories:

---

# Introduction

## What is passport?

Passport is authentication middleware for Node.js. As it’s extremely flexible and modular, 
Passport can be unobtrusively dropped into any Express-based web application. A comprehensive 
set of strategies supports authentication using a username and password, Facebook, Twitter, and more. 

# Body

Passport's sole purpose is to authenticate requests, which it does through an extensible set of plugins 
known as strategies. Passport does not mount routes or assume any particular database schema, which 
maximizes flexibility and allows application-level decisions to be made by the developer. The API is 
simple: you provide Passport a request to authenticate, and Passport provides hooks for controlling what 
occurs when authentication succeeds or fails.

Passport uses the concept of strategies to authenticate requests. Strategies can range from verifying username 
and password credentials, delegated authentication using OAuth

Example:

   passport.use(new LocalStrategy(
  function(username, password, done) {
    User.findOne({ username: username }, function (err, user) {
      if (err) { return done(err); }
      if (!user) { return done(null, false); }
      if (!user.verifyPassword(password)) { return done(null, false); }
      return done(null, user);
    });
  }
));

# Conclusion
Passport will maintain persistent login sessions. In order for persistent sessions to work, the authenticated 
user must be serialized to the session, and deserialized when subsequent requests are made.
Passport does not impose any restrictions on how your user records are stored. Instead, you provide functions 
to Passport which implements the necessary serialization and deserialization logic. In a typical application, 
this will be as simple as serializing the user ID, and finding the user by ID when deserializing.