---
Layout:
Title: "SQL"
Date: 2022-02-23
Categories:

---

# Introduction

## What is a SQL?

SQL stands for Structured Query Language. SQL is used to communicate with a database. According to 
NSI (American National Standards Institute), it is the standard language for relational database 
management systems.

# Body 

SQL statements are used to perform tasks such as update data on a database, or retrieve data from a 
database. Some common relational database management systems that use SQL are: Oracle, Sybase, Microsoft 
SQL Server, Microsoft Access, Ingres, etc.
Although most database systems use SQL, most of them also have their own additional proprietary extensions that 
are usually only used on their system. However, the standard SQL commands such as "Select", "Insert", "Update", 
"Delete", "Create", and "Drop" can be used to accomplish almost everything that one needs to do with a database.

## What is postgres?

PostgreSQL is a powerful, open source object-relational database system that uses and extends the SQL language 
combined with many features that safely store and scale the most complicated data workloads. The origins of PostgreSQL 
ate back to 1986 as part of the POSTGRES project at the University of California at Berkeley and has more than 30 years 
of active development on the core platform.

PostgreSQL has earned a strong reputation for its proven architecture, reliability, data integrity, robust feature set, 
extensibility, and the dedication of the open source community behind the software to consistently deliver performant and 
innovative solutions. PostgreSQL runs on all major operating systems, has been ACID-compliant since 2001, and has powerful
add-ons such as the popular PostGIS geospatial database extender. It is no surprise that PostgreSQL has become the open 
source relational database of choice for many people and organisations.

## Why use postgresql?

PostgreSQL comes with many features aimed to help developers build applications, administrators to protect data integrity and
build fault-tolerant environments, and help you manage your data no matter how big or small the dataset. In addition to being 
free and open source, PostgreSQL is highly extensible. For example, you can define your own data types, build out custom functions,
even write code from different programming languages without recompiling your database!

PostgreSQL tries to conform with the SQL standard where such conformance does not contradict traditional features or could lead to 
poor architectural decisions. Many of the features required by the SQL standard are supported, though sometimes with slightly differing 
syntax or function. 

## What is the difference between sql column and rows?

A row is a series of data put out horizontally in a table or spreadsheet while a column is a vertical series of cells in a chart, table, 
or spreadsheet.
Rows go across left to right. On the other hand, Columns are arranged from up to down.
A row is a series of data banks put out horizontally in a table or spreadsheet.
A column is a vertical series of cells in a chart, table, or spreadsheet.
Rows go across left to right.	
Columns are arranged from up to down.

# Conclusion
PostgreSQL supports four standard procedural languages, which allows the users to write their own code in any of the languages and it can be 
executed by PostgreSQL database server. These procedural languages are - PL/pgSQL, PL/Tcl, PL/Perl and PL/Python. Besides, other non-standard 
procedural languages like PL/PHP, PL/V8, PL/Ruby, PL/Java, etc., are also supported.
