---
Layout:
Title: "postgres"
Date: 2022-03-09
Categories:

---

# Introduction

Today i tried practising sql more .
so today's post will be about postgres which is a
powerful, open source object-relational database system that uses and extends the SQL 
language combined with many features that safely store and scale the most complicated 
data workloads.

# Body

PostgreSQL comes with many features aimed to help developers build applications, administrators 
to protect data integrity and build fault-tolerant environments, and help you manage your data no 
matter how big or small the dataset. In addition to being free and open source, PostgreSQL is highly 
extensible. For example, you can define your own data types, build out custom functions, even write cod
from different programming languages without recompiling your database!

PostgreSQL tries to conform with the SQL standard where such conformance does not contradict traditional 
features or could lead to poor architectural decisions. Many of the features required by the SQL standard 
are supported, though sometimes with slightly differing syntax or function. Further moves towards conformance 
can be expected over time.

Postgres offers a wider variety of data types than MySQL. If your application deals with any of the unique data 
types it has available, or unstructured data, PostgreSQL may be a better pick. If you’re using only basic character 
and numeric data types, both databases will suit you.

Databases use indexes to speed up queries. With multiple indexing options to pick from, you can fine-tune your database 
performance as your data grows to get faster query responses from your database and an improved user experience for your application users.

# Conclusion

If you’re developing an application with a database back end, you should consider using Postgres.
If you’re new to the world of databases and don’t expect your application to scale up, or you’re looking for a quick tool for prototyping, 
then consider MySQL.