---
Layout:
Title:	"@media Quer
Date:	2024-03-23
Categories:

---

# Introduction

## What is a Responsive Design

Responsive Design is the practise of making sure your content looks good on all screen sizes.

 Everything in the website including layouts, fonts and images should automatically adapt to the user's device.

# Body

## What is a Media Query?

In CSS, a media query is used to apply a set of styles based on the browser's characteristics including width, height, or screen resolution.

### Basic syntax of a media query

@media media-type (media-feature){
/*Styles go here*/
}

-- @media is a typeof Art-rule in css.
These rules will dictate what the CSS will look like based on certain conditions.

The media type refers to the category of media for the device. The different media types include all, print, screen and speech.

* all - works for all devices
* print - works for devices where the media is in print preview mode
* screen - works for devices with screens
* speech - works for devices like screen readers where the content is read out loud to the user.

Except when using the not or only logical operators, the media type is optional and the all type is implied.

The media feature refers to the characteristics of the browser which include height and width of the viewport, orientation or aspect-ratio.

If you wanted to create more complex media queries, then you can use logical operators.  

> and - This operator is used to join multiple media features. If all of the media features are true then the styles inside the curly braces will be applied to the page.
> not - This operator reverses a true query into a false and a false query into a true.
>, (comma) - This operator will separate multiple media features by commas and apply the styles inside the curly brace if one of the conditions is true.

## Should you write separate media queries for every single device on the market?

  --- The short answer to that question is no.

-- There are way too many devices out on the market to try to write a media query for each device.   Technology is always changing which means new devices will always be coming out.

--- It is more important that you target a range of devices using media queries.

- 320px — 480px: Mobile devices
- 481px — 768px: iPads, Tablets
- 769px — 1024px: Small screens, laptops
- 1025px — 1200px: Desktops, large screens
- 1201px and more —  Extra large screens, TV

# Conclusion

The media type is optional unless you are using the not or only logical operators. If the media type is omitted then the media query will target all devices.